Christon Fukuhara
1126856
cpf5193@cs.washington.edu
lab3: answers.txt


Locking Granularity:
	-I decided to use page-level granularity in my implementation.
	
	-For my implementation of locking, I implemented an extra class named LockManager in order to keep track of the state
	of the dependency graph, the shared locks, and the exclusive locks. The lock manager is maintained from the BufferPool.

Deadlock Detection:
	-I implemented both a simple timeout policy and a dependency graph implementation of deadlock detection.
	I used a constant DEPENDENCIES at the top of my LockManager class to quickly switch back and forth between
	the use of dependency graph and timeout policies.
	
	-For my dependency graph, I created an additional class DeadlockManager. The purpose of this was to be able to build dependencies
	between specific locks that transactions were waiting for. In my DeadlockManager, I used a hashtable from TransactionId's
	to a list of TransactionId's, to indicate directed edges for dependencies. Upon a request of adding a dependency to the 
	waits-for graph, the DeadlockManager uses a depth-first-search to figure out if there is a path in the opposite direction,
	and if so, a cycle would occur, thus causing the requesting transaction to abort. If it is safe to add to the dependency 
	graph, it will use a sleep loop until the entries in the hashtable are gone, then execute and remove itself from the graph.

Deadlock Resolution:
	-As described above, a transaction will abort itself if it detects that it will create a cycle upon adding to the dependency graph.
	
Bonus Exercise 6:
	-For the bonus exercise, I implemented both timeouts and the dependency graph to take care of deadlock detection.
	Using timeouts is simple and easy to implement, but inefficient as it will have to wait until the timeout to determine that there
	is a deadlock, and must be set for longer depending on how long the execution of the queries is expected to take. A dependency
	graph, in contrast, is much harder to implement and takes extra overhead at each insert into the dependency graph to determine
	whether there is a deadlock. However, we are guaranteed that a deadlock will never occur, and a transaction will abort before
	it can create a deadlock. It will also avoid unnecessary aborts for deadlocks that don't exist, and provides more flexibility
	to the runtime of queries.
